Location: The Orion Sector - The Greater Expanses

A quiet memory of the past. A dust-covered legend, many times adapted and transformed, forgotten and rediscovered through chance findings of abandoned data logs, a leaking holo or even some fragments of genuine paper. 

The tales of the Cydonia, a rocky-metallic world of middling size, fitted with factories and habitation and honeycombed with tunnels and conveyors and elevators for the several thousand citizens, technicians and military personnel. Tasked with escaping the home system of the Pearson Exotronics Corporation, after a mirror field destabilisation triggered the subnova ejection of coronal mass from the orange giant being harvested by an experimental dyson prism, or so they say. The surrounding system was bathed in high-energy plasma travelling at relativistic speeds, disabling much of the spacebourne infrastructure in proximity, most significantly the interstellar gate, and eradicating 70% of the human occupants on Cydonia. Witness accounts from shuttles sufficiently shielded from harsh solar radiation describe colossal portions of the exposed planet surface melting and smoothing rapidly with the intermittent gusts of plasma.

A crisis leadership, commanded by the most senior Admiral in the fleet, weathered aftershocks of plasma strands and intense solar radiation while constructing an exotic frameshift drive from repurposed components of the great interstellar gate, recognising that the only salvation for the system lay in manually breaching p-space, and transporting the entire population of the planet to another sun. Progress up to two weeks after the catastrophe was strong, until the stars went dead.

Utter darkness fell on Cydonia, the pinpricks of distant stars blotted out like a shutter on lense. The only illumination remaining was the baleful orange glow of the wounded sun, still shrouded in vortexes of whorling plasma.

And then, out of the darkness, rotated the ovoid shapes of a Tri-Tachyon detachment in standard PK-escort disk formation, silhouetted against the burning star.

You are Rear-Admiral Travis Caledonia, in command of the experimental battleship PCS Tasmania, leading a defence fleet of upgraded Pearson Colonial Navy warships. You must be victorious, or Cydonia will fall.
